Joan found 70 seashells on the beach . she gave Sam some of her seashells . She has 27 seashell . How many seashells did she give to Sam ? 
There were 28 bales of hay in the barn . Tim stacked bales in the barn today . There are now 54 bales of hay in the barn . How many bales did he store in the barn ? 
Mary is baking a cake . The recipe wants 8 cups of flour . She already put in 2 cups . How many cups does she need to add ? 
Sara 's high school played 12 basketball games this year . The team won most of their games . They were defeated during 4 games . How many games did they win ? 
There are 22 walnut trees currently in the park . Park workers will plant walnut trees today . When the workers are finished there will be 55 walnut trees in the park . How many walnut trees did the workers plant today ? 
Mike had 34 peaches at his roadside fruit dish . He went to the orchard and picked peaches to stock up . There are now 86 peaches . how many did he pick ? 
There were 6 roses in the vase . Mary cut some roses from her flower garden . There are now 16 roses in the vase . How many roses did she cut ? 
Mike has 35 books in his library . He bought several books at a yard sale over the weekend . He now has 56 books in his library . How many books did he buy at the yard sale ? 
There are 53 maple trees currently in the park . Park workers will plant maple trees today . When the workers are finished there will be 64 maple trees in the park . How many maple trees did the workers plant today ? 
Mike has 35 books in his library . He bought several books at a yard sale over the weekend . He now has 56 books in his library . How many books did he buy at the yard sale ? 
There are 53 maple trees currently in the park . Park workers will plant maple trees today . When the workers are finished there will be 64 maple trees in the park . How many maple trees did the workers plant today ? 
Dan found 56 seashells on the beach , he gave Jessica some of his seashells . He has 22 seashell . How many seashells did he give to Jessica ? 
Sally had 13 peaches at her roadside fruit dish . She went to the orchard and picked peaches to stock up . There are now 55 peaches . how many did she pick ? 
Benny received 67 dollars for his birthday . He went to a sporting goods store and bought a baseball glove , baseball , and bat . He had 33 dollars over , how much did he spent on the baseball gear ? 
There were 3 roses in the vase . Alyssa cut some roses from her flower garden . There are now 14 roses in the vase . How many roses did she cut ? 
Last week Tom had 74 dollars . He washed cars over the weekend and now has 86 dollars . How much money did he make washing cars ? 
There were 73 bales of hay in the barn . Jason stacked bales in the barn today . There are now 96 bales of hay in the barn . How many bales did he store in the barn ? 
Joan has 8 orange balloons but lost 2 of them . How many orange balloons does Joan have now ? 
Fred had 7 dimes in his bank . His sister borrowed 3 of his dimes . How many dimes does Fred have now ? 
Joan 's cat had 8 kittens . She gave 2 to her friends . How many kittens does she have now ? 
Sam found 35 seashells on the beach , he gave Joan 18 of the seashells . How many seashells does he now have ? 
Mike has 87 baseball cards . Sam bought 13 of Mike 's baseball cards . How many baseball cards does Mike have now ? 
Dan has 64 violet marbles , he gave Mary 14 of the marbles . How many violet marbles does he now have ? 
Sam had 98 pennies in his bank . He spent 93 of his pennies . How many pennies does he have now ? 
Joan found 79 seashells on the beach , she gave Mike 63 of the seashells . How many seashells does she now have ? 
Sally had 760 quarters in her bank . She spent 418 of her quarters . How many quarters does she have now ? 
Jason has 676 Pokemon cards . Alyssa bought 224 of Jason 's Pokemon cards . How many Pokemon cards does Jason have now ? 
Fred has 709 green balloons , he gave Sandy 221 of the balloons . How many green balloons does he now have ? 
Jason has 3 Pokemon cards . Benny bought 2 of Jason 's Pokemon cards . How many Pokemon cards does Jason have now ? 
Mike has 8 orange marbles , he gave Sam 4 of the marbles . How many orange marbles does he now have ? 
Joan had 5 dimes in her bank . She spent 2 of her dimes . How many dimes does she have now ? 
Sam grew 4 watermelons , but the rabbits ate 3 watermelons . How many watermelons does Sam have ? 
Tom found 5 seashells on the beach . he gave Jessica 2 of the seashells . How many seashells does he now have ? 
Fred has 5 baseball cards . Melanie bought 3 of Fred 's baseball cards . How many baseball cards does Fred have now ? 
Mary had 8 potatoes in the garden . The rabbits ate 3 of the potatoes . How many potatoes does Mary now have ? 
There are 9 oak trees currently in the park . Park workers had to cut down 2 oak trees that were damaged . How many oak trees will the park have when the workers are finished ? 
Jessica had 8 quarters in her bank . Her sister borrowed 3 of her quarters . How many quarters does Jessica have now ? 
A restaurant made 9 hamburgers to serve during lunch . Only 3 were actually served . How many hamburgers were over from lunch ? 
There are 7 crayons in the drawer . Mary took 3 crayons out of the drawer . How many crayons are there now ? 
Dan picked 9 limes and gave Sara 4 of the limes . How many limes does Dan have now ? 
Joan has 9 blue balloons but lost 2 of them . How many blue balloons does Joan have now ? 
Joan picked 43 apples from the orchard , and gave 27 apples to Melanie . How many apples does Joan have now ? 
Tom has 30 violet balloons , he gave Fred 16 of the balloons . How many violet balloons does he now have ? 
Fred has 40 baseball cards . Keith bought 22 of Fred 's baseball cards . How many baseball cards does Fred have now ? 
Fred found 47 seashells on the beach , he gave Jessica 25 of the seashells . How many seashells does he now have ? 
Sara grew 43 pumpkins , but the rabbits ate 23 pumpkins . How many pumpkins does Sara have ? 
Joan decided to sell all of her old books . She gathered up 33 books to sell . She sold 26 books in a yard sale . How many books does Joan now have ? 
There are 46 rulers in the drawer . Tim took 25 rulers from the drawer . How many rulers are now in the drawer ? 
There are 33 oak trees currently in the park . Park workers had to cut down 18 oak trees that were damaged . How many oak trees will be in the park when the workers are finished ? 
A dust storm sweeps across the prairie . It covers 64535 acres of the prairie in dust , but leaves 522 acres untouched . How many acres does the prairie cover ? 
Before the recent housing boom , there were 1426 houses in Lawrence County . Now , there are 2000 houses . How many houses did developers build during the housing boom ? 
A worker at a medical lab is studying blood samples . 2 samples contained a total of 7341 blood cells . The first sample contained 4221 blood cells . How many blood cells were in the second sample ? 
So far , an orchard has sold a combined total of 9792 pounds of fresh and frozen fruit this season . If they have sold 3513 pounds of frozen fruit , how many pounds of fresh fruit have been sold so far ? 
Recently , the value of Kate 's retirement fund decreased by $ 12 . If her fund was worth $ 1472 before , how much is it worth now ? 
The Richmond Tigers sold a total of 9570 tickets last season . If they sold 3867 tickets in the first half of the season , how many tickets did they sell in the second half ? 
A petri dish originally contained 600 bacteria . A scientist let the bacteria grow and now there are 8917 of them . How many more bacteria are there now ? 
Tori is a school janitor . Last week , she picked up a total of 1576 pieces of trash . If she picked up 344 pieces of trash in the classrooms , how many pieces of trash did Tori pick up outside the classrooms ? 
Molly owns the Wafting Pie Company . This morning , her employees used 816 eggs to bake pumpkin pies . If her employees used a total of 1339 eggs today , how many eggs did they use in the afternoon ? 
Each of farmer Cunningham 's 6048 lambs is either black or white . There are 193 white ones . How many of Farmer Cunningham 's lambs are black ? 
Students at Arcadia schools are participating in a coat drive . 9437 coats have been collected so far . 6922 coats were collected from the high schools , and the rest from the elementary schools . How many coats were collected at the elementary schools ? 
A company painted some houses in Hancock County white and blue using a total of 6689 gallons of paint . If they used 660 gallons of white paint , how many gallons of blue paint did the company use ? 
The Silvergrove Public Library used a grant to purchase 2647 books . Now the library has a total of 8582 books . How many books did the library have before the grant ? 
A cell phone company has a total of 7422 customers across the world . If 723 of its customers live in the United States , how many of its customers live in other countries ? 
Last year , egg producers in Douglas County produced 1416 eggs . This year , those same farms produced 4636 eggs . How many more eggs did the farms produce this year ? 
An oil pipe in the sea broke . Before engineers started to fix the pipe , 2475 gallons of oil leaked into the water . A total of 6206 gallons of oil leaked before the pipe was fixed . How many gallons of oil leaked while the engineers were fixing the pipe ? 
A treasure hunter discovered a buried treasure chest filled with a total of 5155 gems . 45 of the gems were diamonds , and the rest were rubies . How many of the gems were rubies ? 
Shannon and her family use up a lot of strawberry and blueberry jelly , since they eat toast every morning . At the moment , they have a combined total of 6310 grams of jelly . If they have 4518 grams of blueberry jelly , how many grams of strawberry jelly do they have ? 
While playing a video game , Paul scored 3103 points . He and his cousin together have a total of 5816 points . How many points does Paul 's cousin have ? 
A construction company is repaving a damaged road . So far , they have repaved a total of 4938 inches of the road . Today , they repaved 805 inches of the road . How many inches of the road had they repaved before today ? 
Milford Lake was originally blue because it only had 809 algae plants . Now there are 3263 algae plants , and the lake has turned green . How many more algae plants are in Milford Lake now ? 
Oscar 's bus ride to school is 0.75 mile and Charlie 's bus ride is 0.25 mile . How much longer is Oscar 's bus ride than Charlie 's ? 
